Added the rest of the STIGs (#451)
gardener/documentation: website/documentation/guides/security-and-compliance/kubernetes-hardening/_index.md

---
title: Kubernetes Cluster Hardening Procedure
description: "Compliant user management of your Gardener projects"
level: advanced
category: Security
publishdate: 2023-10-10
tags: ["task"]
aliases: ["/docs/guides/kubernetes-hardening/"]
---

## Overview
The Gardener team takes security seriously, which is why we mandate the Security Technical Implementation Guide (STIG) for Kubernetes as published by the Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) [here](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/). We offer Gardener adopters the opportunity to show compliance with DISA Kubernetes STIG via the compliance checker tool [diki](https://github.com/gardener/diki). The latest release in machine readable format can be found in the [STIGs Document Library](https://public.cyber.mil/stigs/downloads/?_dl_facet_stigs=container-platform) by searching for Kubernetes.

## Kubernetes Clusters Security Requirements

> [DISA Kubernetes STIG version 1 release 10](https://cyber.trackr.live/stig/Kubernetes/1/10) contains 93 rules overall. **Only the following rules, however, apply to you**. Some of them are secure-by-default, so your responsibility is to make sure that they are not changed. For your convenience, the requirements are grouped logically and per role:

Reviewer: Let's refer to the latest revision.

```suggestion
[DISA Kubernetes STIG version 1 release 11](https://cyber.trackr.live/stig/Kubernetes/1/11) contains 91 rules overall. **Only the following rules, however, apply to you**. Some of them are secure-by-default, so your responsibility is to make sure that they are not changed. For your convenience, the requirements are grouped logically and per role:
```

|242420|Kubernetes Kubelet must have the SSL Certificate Authority set.|||
|242421|Kubernetes Controller Manager must have the SSL Certificate Authority set.|||
|242422|Kubernetes API Server must have a certificate for communication.|||
|242423|Kubernetes etcd must enable client authentication to secure service.|||
|242424|Kubernetes Kubelet must enable tlsPrivateKeyFile for client authentication to secure service.|||
|242425|Kubernetes Kubelet must enable tlsCertFile for client authentication to secure service.|||
|242426|Kubernetes etcd must enable client authentication to secure service.|||
|242427|Kubernetes etcd must have a key file for secure communication.|||
|242428|Kubernetes etcd must have a certificate for communication.|||
|242429|Kubernetes etcd must have the SSL Certificate Authority set.|||
|242430|Kubernetes etcd must have a certificate for communication.|||
|242431|Kubernetes etcd must have a key file for secure communication.|||
|242432|Kubernetes etcd must have peer-cert-file set for secure communication.|||
|242433|Kubernetes etcd must have a peer-key-file set for secure communication.|||

> |242434|Kubernetes Kubelet must enable kernel protection.|||

Reviewer: This rule is already mentioned in the "Control Plane Configuration" section so we can remove it from here.

```suggestion
```
